[MM-49711] Desktop App - Navigation documentation (#1205)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/more-info/desktop/architecture/navigation.md

- **Security:** Since we expose certain Electron (and therefore NodeJS) APIs to the front-end application, we want to be in control of what scripts are run in the front-end. We make a concerted effort to lock down the exposed APIs to only what is necessary; however, to avoid any privacy or security breaches, it's best to avoid allowing the user to navigate to any page that isn't explicitly trusted.
- **User Experience:** Our application is ONLY designed to work with the Mattermost Web App and thus allowing the user to navigate to other places that are not the Web App is not a supported use case, and could create some undesirable effects.

![Navigation diagram](navigation-diagram.png)

### Internal navigation
  
The Mattermost Web App is self-contained, with the majority of links provided by `react-router` and thus most navigation is handled by that module. However, in the Desktop App, we have a major feature that allows users to navigate between distinct tabs bound to the same server. There are two ways that this style of navigation happens in the Web App:
- A user clicks on a link provided by the `react-router` `Link` component

> - Calling `browserHistory.push` directly within the Web App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The application calls `browserHistory.push` directly within the Web App based on the user action
```

> - Calling `browserHistory.push` directly within the Web App

Author: The application calls this function as a result of some other user interaction.

> - Calling `browserHistory.push` directly within the Web App

Reviewer: Thanks, @devinbinnie! Feel free to modify my proposed update as needed.

Both of these methods will make use of the `browserHistory` module within the Web App.

When one of the above methods is used, normally the Web App would update the browser's URL and change the state of the page. In the Desktop App, we instead send the arguments of the call to `browserHistory.push` up to the Electron Main Process. The information is received at the method `WindowManager.handleBrowserHistoryPush`, where we perform the following actions:
- **Clean the path name by removing any part of the server's subpath pathname.** 
    - When the arguments are sent up to the Desktop App, it includes the subpath of the server hosting it. 

>     - If the server URL is `http://server-1.com/mattermost`, any path that is received will start with `/mattermost` and we will need to remove that component.

Reviewer: I think clarifying the URL as an example is a very good idea and would reduce the chances of a reader interpreting it literally.

- **Retrieve the view matching the path name**
    - After removing the leading subpath (if applicable), we check to see if a portion of the path matches one of the other tabs, signally that we will need to switch to that tab.
    - For server `http://server-1.com/mattermost`, if the pathname is `/mattermost/boards/board1`, we would get the *Boards* view matching the server.
- **Display the correct view and send the cleaned path to its renderer process**
    - We then explicitly display the new view if it's not currently in focus. If it's closed, we open it and load the corresponding URL with the provided path.
    - *Exception*: If we're redirecting to the root of the application and the user is not logged in, it will generate an unnecessary refresh. In this case, we do not send the path name down.

> ### External Navigation

Reviewer: In this docs set, headings avoid title case and use sentence case instead.

    - If the URL DOES match the root of a configured server, we still will deny the window opening for a few cases:
        - If the URL matches the public files route (`/api/v4/public/files/*`)
        - If the URL matches the image proxy route (`/api/v4/image/*`)
        - If the URL matches the help route (`/help/*`)
    - For these cases, we will open the link in the user's browser.
- **Deep Link Case**: If the URL doesn't match any of the above routes, but is still a valid configured server, we will generally treat is as the deep link cause and will instead attempt to show the correct tab and navigate to the corresponding URL within the app.

There are two cases where we do allow the application to open a new window:
- If the URL matches the `devtools:` protocol, so that we can open the Chrome Developer Tools.
- If the URL is a valid configured server URL that corresponds to the plugins route (`/plugins/*`). In these cases we allow a single popup per tab to be opened for certain plugins to do things like OAuth (eg. GitHub, JIRA)

Any other case will be automatically denied for security reasons.

#### Links within the same window

> By default, the Mattermost app marks any link external to its application as `target=_blank` so that the application doesn't try to open it in the same window. Any other links should therefore be internal to the application.

Reviewer: the Mattermost Web App?

> By default, the Mattermost app marks any link external to its application as `target=_blank` so that the application doesn't try to open it in the same window. Any other links should therefore be internal to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Mattermost app marks any link external to its application as `target=_blank`, so that the application doesn't try to open it in the same window. Any other links should therefore be internal to the application.
```

> In our app, we *deny* any sort of in-window navigation with the following exceptions: if the link is a `mailto:` link (which always opens the default mail program) OR if we are in the custom login flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We *deny* any sort of in-window navigation with the following exceptions: if the link is a `mailto:` link (which always opens the default mail program), OR if we are in the custom login flow.
```

#### Custom Login flow

> In order to facilitate logging into to the app using an external provider (eg. Okta) in the same way that one would in the browser, we add an exception to the navigation flow that bypasses the `will-navigate` check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to facilitate logging into to the app using an external provider (e.g. Okta) in the same way that one would in the browser, we add an exception to the navigation flow that bypasses the `will-navigate` check.
```
